>> Estelle Weyl: So
the next section is pseudo-elements.
And you can find it on the GitHub page and
slide 79, which is where we're starting.
So there are several pseudo-elements.
And since CSS 2.1 they've had two colons
in front of them to differentiate
between pseudo-elements and
pseudo-classes.
If you actually put one colon they work
fine, but the correct syntax is two.
So we have first-line, first-letter,
selection before and after.
And interestingly,
selection is not in the specification,
not even yet in CSS selectors level four.
Pseudo-classes select
elements that actually exist.
There is something before the element,
there is an opening and closing tag, or
a faux tag.
Pseudo-elements create these faux, or
fake, if you've ever heard of faux pearls,
it means they're not really pearls.
But it sounds French so it sounds fancy.
So it's a faux element that
creates a fake before and
after, and then whatever content
is in there you can style.
So in this section,
the first-letter pseudo-element.
It's as if there was a first element tag,
and
then an end first element tag
right around that first letter.
So in this case,
I have targeted with the selector,
the first letter of the paragraph
that is the first of its type.
And the reason I have chosen to
do a paragraph first of its type,
is because if I didn't, the drop caps
would look absolutely horrendous, and
it would be impossible to read.
So this is an example of combining
a pseudo-element with a pseudo-class,
or structural selector, to just hit
one thing that you really wanna hit.
So you can always use
combinations like this.
So in this case, it's as if that letter
Y itself was in its own element,
and we were able to style it.
But because it is a letter, you kind
of have to position it to give it.
It's like an inline span,
you can't do everything to it.
But in this case,
by positioning it, we have.
We've given it three times the size,
and floated it.
And the reason that we floated it,
because if we didn't float it,
it would just, it looks better.
It floats it and you put the text
around it, so that's first-letter.
It's just a way to style the first letter
which is usually used for drop caps.
Next we have selection, and
here I am selecting this and it is red.
Everywhere else that I selected something,
it wasn't red, it was blue,
which was the default, but
here I change the selection.
And here it says, in this slide,
anything that I select make
the background red and the color white.